>> So I'll just tell you a
little bit about myself real
quick.
I was actually born in France.
My parents are Americans.
I was born in a Knights
Templar castle in France.
But yeah, I lived for a while
in France as a little kid
and then I grew up really
in Colorado and Montana,
and I went to high school and
college in Missoula, Montana.
And then I had a chance to go
to-- my parents like to travel
and so at an early age, I
went to Stonehenge and Carnac,
to Greece and Turkey and places
like that, also down to Mexico
to see Teotihuacan and stuff.
And then I had the
chance in the mid-70s
to go to Taiwan as
an English teacher.
So I did that.
I went to Japan and Taiwan.
I've always been a skier
and a mountain climber,
so I wanted to go to
Mount Everest and Tibet.
Like Bob Sieger would say,
I'm going to Kathmandu.
And so I did all that, and I
traveled across the Middle East
and went to Israel and to Egypt.
Later, I lived for 2
and 1/2 years in Africa.
I worked for Chevron Oil
in Sudan for a while.
I eventually returned to India
and China, Japan, and Korea,
and whatnot.
And then I got back
to the United States.
And then I went down to South
America and Central America
and traveled through the
Pacific, went to Easter Island
like three times,
Nan Madol and stuff.
So I've traveled around the
world and I started writing
books in the mid-80s,
my "Lost Cities" books.
And was on some TV shows,
and then along came "Ancient
Aliens."
And that was great.
People sometimes recognize me
at airports and they say, hey,
are you that guy on
"Ancient Aliens"?
I'll go, yeah, yeah.
And then they always say to me,
what's with that guy's hair?
Giorgio is a great guy.
So "Ancient Aliens" got started
actually because of "Indiana
Jones and the Crystal Skull."
That's really what kind of
got "Ancient Aliens" going.
And "Ancient Aliens" started
as a two-hour special.
And then it got picked
up as a TV show.
And it's been going now for
15 years and still going.
So anyway, let's get going here.
As an archeologist and
traveler and researcher,
I've just always been fascinated
by megaliths, power tools,
and all the kind of things
that go along with all that.
So let's start talking
about all that.
The largest known
megaliths that we know of
are at Baalbek in Lebanon,
and they are gigantically
huge blocks of stone.
This is my friend Ralph
Ellis at one of the-- this
is in the quarry.
This one was quarried and
squared but never moved
into place.
They say that the heaviest stone
that they've found there is
1,650 tons.
Even something that weighs 2 or
3 or 5 tons is extremely heavy.
Things that weigh 20 tons or
50 or 80 or 100 tons, these
are already super
duper heavy things.
When you're talking about
megaliths weigh like 1,000 tons,
I mean, it's just
impossibly heavy.
Even we couldn't really
move things like this today.
Your average obelisk
weighs about 500 tons.
We'll talk about that later.
Now, what you have at Baalbek is
a huge platform with these giant
blocks weighing like 1,000
tons as part of the platform.
And then there's a Roman
temple on top of it.
Baalbek is in Lebanon right
near the Syrian border.
So what you have also in
Jerusalem is a similar platform,
giant blocks.
They had to cut a tunnel.
This is the Wailing Wall, the
base of King Solomon's temple.
But it also is a giant like
1,000-ton block of stone
that's perfectly fitted.
This woman is standing there.
They didn't even know this
existed until like about 15,
20 years ago.
So there are all
kinds of monoliths
and sunken cities in
the Mediterranean.
There's more than 200
known sunken cities
in the Mediterranean.
And this is a giant monolith
that was found just off Sicily.
It apparently was
like an obelisk.
It had drill holes
and stuff in it.
It's in about 100
feet of water or so.
So the idea there is
that at one point,
the Mediterranean was like a
big basin with big lakes in it.
And you have-- and there
were obelisks there, too.
This is the unfinished
obelisk at Aswan,
and this is an
aerial photo of it.
It weighs also about 1,000 tons.
How the Egyptians were
able to quarry and lift out
of the quarry and then
move these obelisks
and then erect them, we don't
know how they could do it.
The modern Egyptian
engineers can't do it today.
They are unable to.
What happened with the
unfinished obelisk?
I'll just go back
to it for a second.
As the Egyptians
were quarrying it,
or whoever was quarrying it--
could have been ancient aliens--
as a cut underneath the obelisk,
it has to be a monolith.
I mean, it can't be in pieces.
It has to be one giant
piece of granite.
Granite is infused with
tiny quartz crystals, too.
So they're ultimately like
crystal towers, the obelisks.
But as they cut underneath
the obelisk at Aswan,
they noticed there was a crack
in the rock, a natural crack
but they couldn't see
it until they started
cutting under the obelisk.
As soon as they saw that there
was a crack in the obelisk
and it wasn't going
to be perfect,
they just stopped working
on it because they
couldn't use that obelisk.
The obelisk had to be perfect.
Incredibly, there are
obelisks on the moon.
I'll talk about that later.
This is one of my books,
"Obelisk: Towers of Power."
So, yeah, your average obelisk
was weighing about 500 tons
and some obelisks weigh up
to 1,000 tons or even more.
So you get into the whole
idea of Atlantis, prehistory.
When we think of any
civilization that's prior
to about 10,000 BC or so, then
we're really talking about
Atlantis.
The story of Atlantis comes from
the Greek philosopher Plato,
who talks about his uncle going
to Egypt, where the Egyptians
tell him about Atlantis.
They tell him that the Greeks
are older than he even thinks.
And then they tell him
the story of Atlantis.
Atlantis was supposedly
an island civilization
out in the Atlantic, say,
where the Azores are today
or we're not exactly sure
where it would have been.
And it had concentric
circles and canals
going into a center city.
There were huge pyramids
and stuff there.
So that's the story of Atlantis.
And I've always been
interested in Atlantis.
In the Pacific, too, you have
stories of Lemuria and Mu,
the land of Mu, and
this land that's
connected to the southern
tip of India and Australia.
So Kumari Kandam, this
is what they call it
in the Tamil language.
So in India, too, they
believe that there's
this lost continents, lost
lands that they're all part of.
So let's now go
to Peru and we'll
go to Ollantaytambo, one of
my favorite places in Peru.
This is at the end
of the Sacred Valley.
This is on the way
to Machu Picchu,
and it has some very,
very curious megaliths.
You see these ones here.
There are also giant blocks
of granite, perfectly fitted
and cut, fitted together.
That's the sun temple up there.
But what you see as you
walk around Ollantaytambo,
and it's actually on
a hill above a cliff,
you see these giant
blocks like this
and they're scattered
around like some kid's toy
blocks or something.
But these blocks are weighing
probably 200 to 300 tons each.
And the thing is this--
this is how it looks today.
And this is how it looked
in Inca times, too,
and when the Spanish
conquered Peru.
It looked just like this.
And even you have these crummy
little blocks of stone that
are underneath them and stuff.
So this place had
already been destroyed.
And what archeologists try
to say is that, oh well,
they just never finished
building this thing.
But it's so gigantically huge.
And then you have
these things here.
These are called
keystone cuts and they're
in T-shapes or hourglass shapes.
And there's always going to be
another one on the other side.
So you have another
block and then
you pour molten metals into this
and you create a metal clamp
that's spanning two blocks.
And you see this
at Ollantaytambo.
You also see it at the
sun temple in Cusco.
But this is also-- this
is indicative of what
you see at Tiwanaku and
Pumapunku are these clamps.
And you see this also in
Egypt, you see it in Indonesia,
you see it in Vietnam,
you see it in Greece,
you see it in other
places too, in Morocco.
And this is an unusual
way of fitting blocks
together and then pouring
molten metals into it.
And the idea that people
in different continents
all around the world would
start building like this
is almost impossible.
So this shows that the same
people who are building in Peru
are the same ones
building in Egypt.
They have these keystone cuts
in Egypt too, and in India,
and Indonesia, Vietnam, other
places around the world.
What's interesting
here, I don't know
if you can really see
it very carefully,
but in the upper side here is a
keystone cut on this big block.
And then you have this crummy
sort of blocks filling it in.
And so this shouldn't be here.
I mean, this has to be on a
horizontal plane, not on this.
So this shows that this
block, and it's a giant block,
isn't in the right place.
Somebody's put it
in the wrong place.
As you walk up the
stairs, you also
see there are stairs
going up at Ollantaytambo.
You see the polygonal masonry.
It's perfectly fitted together.
You have these strange knobs.
They're not sure what those
are for-- the big lichen
patches that also shows
that it's very old.
Here's Machu Picchu.
Machu Picchu is a secret city.
It's a megalithic city
on top of a mountain.
The Spanish never knew
that it was there.
It's got the sun temple.
It's magnificently
beautiful site.
It's the most
popular tourist spot
in all of South America
for good reason.
And there's another city that's
almost identical to Machu
Picchu in Cambodia.
It's called Preah Vihear, and it
also has a famous three windows.
It's also on top of cliffs,
on top of a mountain.
Now, as you go into--
as you go south of Cusco and
Ollantaytambo in that area,
you come to Lake Titicaca.
This is a satellite
photo of Lake Titicaca.
Lake Titicaca is about
13,000 feet in the Andes.
About half of Lake
Titicaca is in Peru.
The other half is in Bolivia.
UFOs come up out of the lake.
It's very famous for
that UFO activity.
It's the highest navigable
lake in the world.
This northern part up here.
Well, yeah, it's the northern
part at the top of the picture.
The water is very
deep there in places.
It's about 900 deep.
In this southern part of the
lake down here at the bottom,
it's much more shallow.
And they say that
there are sunken cities
and ruins in this area.
The UFOs come out of areas here.
There's Island of the Sun.
So Lake Titicaca
is very mysterious.
There's an incredibly, in Lake
Titicaca, there are seahorses.
Seahorses live normally
in tropical ocean reefs
like or around
Indonesia or Tahiti
and stuff like that, kind
of shallow, warm coral reefs
and stuff.
How seahorses would be at
13,000 feet in the Andes,
they can't explain that,
and would indicate that,
at one time, Lake
Titicaca was at sea level.
Today it's 13,000
feet in the Andes.
Here's a-- they're diving.
There are ruins, underwater
ruins in Lake Titicaca.
They know that Jacques Cousteau
did a famous dive there
and stuff, too.
This is the Mauk'allaqta
Chullpa in Espinar province.
And this kind of
shows you, again,
where you have Inca
construction, which
is this sort of crummy
construction here.
But then you have construction
that's megalithic and perfectly
fitted.
I mean, this thing
would be impossible
for a modern
construction crew in Peru
to make today, these kind of
mushroom towers and things
like that.
And there's a bunch
of them around Peru.
This is all sort of
around Lake Titicaca.
This is Cutimbo.
Cutimbo is just to the
west side of Lake Titicaca,
and it's on top of this mesa.
You have to climb up
and hike up to the top.
And when you get up there,
there are more towers.
There are square
towers and round
towers, the ruins of things.
They're megalithic, they're
perfectly fitted granite towers
and things.
And what you see on some of
them is snakes in relief.
So that means that they've
cut the stone all around it
to leave these snakes.
There are snakes here.
There's another
snake over there.
Here's another snake here
on one of the blocks.
In Cusco, there are
some places, too,
where you see these snakes
that are cut into the rock.
This is also--
there's another tower
area there called Sillustani.
There's lakes there.
This is also just to the
west of Lake Titicaca.
So it's another lake
but it's smaller.
And this island in the
middle of it is also flat.
And they say that UFOs
come up out of this lake,
and it's a very active UFO area.
There are towers and stuff here.
This is at Sillustani.
You can see the snake that's
going there up at the top.
So here's what's interesting.
The Yazidis in
Northern Iraq, this
is one of the oldest
religions in the world,
and they are really the
heirs of the Sumerians.
And what they have
on their temples
is the snakes, the
same kind of snakes
that we're seeing in Peru.
And so here's one
of those temples.
These are up in Mosul.
It's a very northern part of
Iraq where the Yazidis live.
See the snake there on the side,
that's also cut into the rocks.
So here we have this Sumerian
stuff that's happening.
But it's not just in Northern
Iraq and Sumerian stuff,
it's also in Peru.
So just south of Lake
Titicaca is Tiwanaku.
And Tiwanaku is a
megalithic city.
It's absolutely pre-Inca.
They know that.
And one of the
features at Tiwanaku
are these monolithic doors.
So they're monolithic
in the sense
that the door is, this is
all one giant slab of granite
and a door is cut into it.
It's been cracked and
split by an earthquake.
You can see on the side
here, these notches,
so this was wasn't meant
to just stand by itself.
It's part of some giant
building that was destroyed.
So what you have in the middle
of the gate is the sun god,
they say Viracocha.
He's standing there.
He's got staffs on either
side and he's crying.
He's got tears coming
down each cheek.
And what this is, they called
them the tears of the sun.
And what I believe it is,
the tears, it's molten gold.
And Tiwanaku and
Pumapunku were apparently
a huge metallurgical
plant that was processing
metals, gold, silver,
tin, bronze, copper,
and stuff like that.
Now what's interesting,
too, is that
on either side of him running--
and they're running toward
him from either side,
are these birdmen, these
guys, and they're also
holding staffs and things.
They have wings, they're
birdmen, they can fly.
And he's got a feathered
headdress and stuff like that.
So here are the birdmen.
They fly, they're
at Tiwanaku, they're
processing metals and gold.
The Tiwanaku was like
wallpapered with sheets of gold.
And that's what a lot of
the little drill holes are.
They were to hold pins that
hold these gold sheets.
Some archeologists
have speculated
that the story of Jason
and the golden fleece
is a story of the Greeks
going to South America,
going up the Rio de la
Plata, which was there
by north of Buenos Aires, and up
into Bolivia, and to Tiwanaku.
This is a Jade Olmec
Birdman from Costa Rica.
So he's one of
these birdmen, too.
He's got wings.
He's got the elongated head.
He can fly.
So we'll go here to Pumapunku.
This is giant slabs
of sandstone, there.
It's been completely destroyed.
They're digging it up right now.
They're trenching it.
Certain areas, they
rope off to tourists.
But I've been able to
go all over Pumapunku.
You have-- they are
trenching it there.
This is what archeologists do.
They dig these trenches to see,
just find out what's there.
And there, they find
also blocks of stone.
And here are those
keystone cuts again
that we were looking at
before at Ollantaytambo,
where the molten metals are
poured into these blocks
to hold them together.
So here are some more
of these keystone cuts.
They're on the giant sandstone
slabs that weigh about 75 tons.
They're beneath.
And these are big keystone
cuts, so the metal clamps
going into them would
be really quite heavy.
Here are some of the
clamps, what they look like.
They're bronze.
So they're a mixture
of copper and tin.
They're in the museum,
they're at Tiwanaku.
So now let's go to
Vietnam, to My Son.
This is a city near Da Nang.
And it has to do with the
Cham people, the Champa
people who were the early--
they were the real
original inhabitants
of Vietnam and Cambodia and
of Laos and even Thailand
and that area.
They were called the
Cham, C-H-A-M or Cham.
And that is also the
ancient word for Egypt,
is Cham or Kemet.
So we're almost-- they're like
using the same word for them
as they did in
Egypt as the Cham.
And the keystone
cuts are there, too,
and they're cutting stones out
of basalt. So what you need
is power tools to do this.
You need diamond drills,
diamond saws, diamond grinders
and things, the same kind of
power tools we have today.
That's what you need
to cut these things.
Now, we're back at
Tiwanaku and Pumapunku.
These are the H blocks there.
They've got also the clamps.
This is a mural at the
museum in Tiwanaku.
So here you have these perfectly
cut H-blocks and stuff.
And they're granite.
They're very hard.
You will need power tools
to cut them, these guys.
But this is totally anomalistic.
I mean, here, he's
got a little campfire,
they're wearing these tunics.
But what they're doing is
so incredibly sophisticated
that archeologists
can't explain it.
And they can't do this either.
But they've got these
primitive guys doing this,
and it's impossible.
I mean, this is
ridiculous, really.
There is a pyramid to the west
of Tiwanaku and Pumapunku.
Here it is.
I had to take this
with a telephoto lens.
This village is excavating it.
They won't allow
tourists to go there.
And the villagers themselves
are excavating it.
Not the Bolivian government.
They've taken control of it.
And they're finding
artifacts and things in it.
And one of those
artifacts is this.
It's called the
Fuente Magna Bowl.
And it's a large ceramic bowl.
It was found in that
pyramid in 1960.
It was kept in the museum
and it wasn't put on display
until about 2005 or so.
So today, this is in the main
archeological museum in La Paz.
They call it the Gold Museum
or the Archeological Museum.
Now, what is on this
bowl is incredible.
It has two types of
Sumerian writing on it.
It has Sumerian
cuneiform on the left,
and on the right is
Sumerian hieroglyphs.
The Sumerians wrote in both
hieroglyphs and in cuneiform.
And it's apparently
a libation to what
it says to Sumerian gods
and things like that.
That's my friend.
I took this photo.
That's my friend Christopher
Dunn standing behind it.
They tell you not to take
photos of it when you're there,
but I whipped out
my camera and...
So this is incredible.
I mean, this is proof that
the Sumerians and the Anunnaki
were in Peru and in Bolivia.
And this is, I mean,
this is a time bomb.
This totally changes the history
of South America completely.
And this is in the
main museum in La Paz.
Archeologists don't
want to touch this.
All they can do is ignore it.
You would think that National
Geographic or somebody would do
a whole documentary or
something on TV about this,
but they don't.
They just pretend
it's not there.
And they only show that I'm
aware of that as featured this
is "Ancient Aliens."
I mean, it totally changes
the history of South America.
So there's another artifact
there, too, the Pokotia statue.
It's a granite
statue, was split.
It also has Sumerian
writing on it.
It's on his thigh there.
So let's look here at
the H blocks themselves.
They're andesite.
Very hard granite.
They're cut in these very
articulated H blocks.
They fit together
like LEGO blocks,
and it's very hard to make.
Again, you need power tools,
diamond saws, diamond grinders,
diamond drills to
make this stuff.
It's like some vimana or
giant airship just landed
there, the Altiplano of Bolivia
and had like a whole machine
shop inside it.
And with CAD
programs that were--
and they were
cutting these blocks
and they were very uniform.
And when the blocks
came out, they
would fit together into
these walls and stuff.
So this is a diagram of what
these H blocks look like.
All this articulation and
stuff is on the inside.
Extremely difficult to do.
You can't bash these out with
a stone hammer in your hand.
You can't do it with a
copper chisel either.
You need power tools to do this.
So this is what the blocks look
like and how they fit together.
It's an animation I got
from Erich von Däniken.
So you see how the blocks are.
They're uniform.
Then they slide
together, they fit in.
So this is all very
specialized and pre-programmed.
I mean, whoever is devising
this, I mean, they are geniuses,
beyond anything
that we do today.
So they come together and they
fit into these giant walls and--
I mean, it's astonishing
what they've done here.
It's really something.
It's just-- the more you look
at it, the more amazing it gets.
So all right.
Now let's go to--
let's go to Egypt.
We'll go to the Serapeum.
In fact, here's Christopher
Dunn, my friend.
He's a British-American
engineer.
He wrote the "Giza Power Plant."
So the Serapeum is near Saqqara.
It's underground.
For decades, tourists weren't
allowed to go in there.
They've opened it up over
the last 10, 15 years,
and tourists can
go in there now.
When you go to the Serapeum,
you're out there in the desert.
It's just sand and
stuff like that.
But suddenly, there
is this pathway
that goes down underground.
So when you get in there, what's
underground in the Serapeum
are all these catacombs
and little side kind
of closets and stuff
that are going one way.
It's very close, narrow
hallways with little niches
and stuff on the side.
And inside are these
gigantic basalt sarcophagi
with huge lids.
And they're weighing
about 80 tons.
It's astonishing.
They're perfectly
cut and squared.
They found in one of
them an Apis bull.
So the Egyptology theory
is that, well, these
were tombs for these
mummified bulls.
But, you know, that's maybe
not what was going on here,
but we don't know what it is.
So that's me.
What happens-- in some of
these is what's amazing is that
the idea is if you're going to
move these giant 80-ton basalt
boxes, you're going to have to
have all these guys with ropes
and stuff and
rollers or something.
You're all pulling and
pushing on these things,
but then they go into
these little niches
and there's just no place
for people to stand.
There can't be some big team
of people pulling in on this.
No.
And they would literally
have to move these things
with anti-gravity
and levitation.
It sort of reminds me of the
scene at the end of the "Empire
Strikes Back," when Han Solo's
frozen in carbonite and Boba
Fett is just it-- it's floating,
and he's pushing it up into his
spaceship where he's
going to take it.
And he's just walking behind it.
And that's what must
have happened here.
I mean, they made
these things weightless
and they could just move them
and manipulate them into places.
To make these boxes,
you would have to,
according to
Christopher Dunn, you'd
have to be drilling down
inside it with what,
diamond drills and stuff.
This is basalt, extremely hard.
Basalt is harder than granite.
So making these things
requires power tools.
There are some hieroglyphs
on a few of them.
And just cutting these
hieroglyphs in there
would take like
lasers or, again,
diamond tip tools and stuff
like that, power tools.
And that is something I
constantly maintain in my books,
how they need using power
tools to make these things.
Here's Christopher Dunn himself.
He's got his specialty tools.
He's measuring how
perfectly straight
the sides are and the
angles at right angles.
So yeah, these aren't just
being eyeballed and bashed
in by somebody.
It's like
computer-controlled machines
are cutting this just the
way we would do it today.
Here again is what it
looks like inside, some
of these little passageways.
The boxes, the basalt boxes just
barely fit into these things.
So they can't
figure out how they
were moving these except with
some kind of antigravity.
All right.
Another curious megalith
around the world
are these giant stone balls.
They're in Costa Rica.
They're granite.
They know they're man-made.
There's no question about that.
But how they would make these
balls, what their purpose was,
they're different sizes.
Some of them are about the
size of a Volkswagen Beetle.
They're perfectly
round, they're solid.
They don't know how
they would make them.
They're found washed up in these
jungle areas of Costa Rica.
And Archeologists
are baffled by it.
They don't know what the purpose
of these giant stone balls
would be.
Indiana Jones, I mean,
I don't know that--
I mean, maybe that's what they
were for, to chase Archeologists
down a passageway.
So here we are, some more
of these stone balls.
And this is kind of
where they find them.
They don't find them in
some pyramid or structure.
They just kind find
them out in the jungle.
They're half buried and stuff.
There's also an island off the
West Coast of Costa Rica that
has these as well.
And it's baffling.
What they will say, too, if
you go to the museum there,
they put a kind of medium-sized
stone ball there with a tomb.
And they're kind of saying,
well, they were, you know,
for the Chiefs and stuff.
It was a status symbol
that they were powerful.
And maybe the bigger
the stone ball you had,
the greater the chief you were.
So that's kind of
what they're saying.
But they just don't have no
idea what purpose they would be.
So here we go.
I mean, this is fairly
recent excavation.
So this stone ball was
just sort of barely peeking
up out of the jungle.
And then they, you
know, Archeologists
started digging up around it.
And yeah, it's a perfectly
made stone granite ball.
They can't and they have
no idea what happened.
It's almost like a tidal wave.
Some cataclysm just
took all these balls
and washed them up into the
jungle hills of Western Costa
Rica.
So many of you probably
are from Los Angeles.
Back around 1910
or so, they were
building an electric trolley
from Santa Monica from the out
inland into Los Angeles.
And there was this little--
there was this book,
a guy sent it to me, and it
was just like a little booklet
about building the trolley.
And it was an electric trolley,
so it could only go up--
there were hills and stuff
there and in Santa Monica,
but it could only go
up a very low grade.
It couldn't go up a
steep grade and stuff.
So what happened was they needed
to take out some of this hill
there in Santa Monica.
And they brought this
steam shovel in it
and they started
digging it up and stuff.
And what did they find?
A bunch of stone balls.
At the time, they called
them dinosaur eggs.
We don't know what happened
to these stone balls.
They probably ended
up in backyard gardens
and stuff in Los Angeles.
We don't know where they went,
but that's what they found.
So, yeah.
Franz Josef Land in
the Russian Arctic.
It's called Champ Island.
This is kind of near
Spitsbergen. Cruise ships do
go up here occasionally, and
there are granite stone balls
there.
And they don't-- I mean,
this is what's baffling,
is that we have the
ones in Costa Rica,
we know they're man-made.
There's no question about it.
And now we have these
ones in Franz Josef Land.
They're virtually identical.
They're granite,
too, but they're
saying to geologists and
archeologists, they're like,
well, you know, these
have to be natural.
People didn't-- couldn't come up
here and make these stone balls.
But they don't know
how that would be.
I mean, how is it
that in nature you're
going to have a perfectly
spherical granite ball?
I mean, what they
would theorize is
that, yeah, some volcano or
something is spewing out magma
and it's going through the air.
And it's spinning around
and becomes a ball
and it hardens
and lands, I mean,
you know, they can't explain
it, particularly when
they're granite.
So here's another one of them.
Some of them have
been split and stuff.
But yeah, once again,
they can't explain it.
Here's another one.
It's got big lichen
patches on it,
so that means that
it's quite old.
These are some stone
balls in Bosnia.
Went there to that pyramid
in Bosnia one time,
and there was some miles away,
like about 100 miles away it's
this valley, and it has
also stone balls are there.
So again, we can't
really explain it.
Here's some more.
There's also a place in
Mexico called Piedras Bola.
And these ones, this is also
where they're saying like,
yeah, volcanoes are kind
of spewing out these stone
balls somehow.
And in Mexico, maybe
that is the case.
We don't know.
Here's a place in Siberia.
Also stone balls.
Some of them are limestone.
And then the idea there is that
they somehow become aggregate
in a stream or something.
And over time, it builds up
and becomes a stone ball.
But geologists, you
know, it's like they--
it's like they have to explain
it somehow but they can't.
And they're just
baffled by this.
The Moeraki boulders
in New Zealand.
This is down on the Western
side of the South Island.
There's a whole bunch there.
There are also
these stone balls.
Some of them are
cracking and stuff.
It's a popular tourist
site in New Zealand.
And again, they're
saying, well, they're
just natural stone balls.
We don't know how they make them
or how they're made by nature,
but here they are.
So, yeah, I mean, it's
again, a baffling thing.
I recently got an
email from a guy
in New Zealand who showed
me how they were digging
one out of a hill,
and he said that
to him, that proved that
they weren't natural,
that they were also artificial,
like the ones in Costa Rica.
There's a place in Italy
that also got these stone
balls, San Augusta, Italy.
And they're people-- you
know, they're just out there
on these areas.
They've kind of
moved a lot of them
to some of the
castles and stuff.
So yeah, more stone balls.
There's also another place in
Italy with the stone balls.
So, yeah, they're
wondering about these,
were they being-- were they
like giant cannon balls
that they were using for
catapults or something?
We don't know.
Here they are again.
This is in Dubrovnik.
These are smaller ones.
But again, the stone
balls, you might
think they could use
them for like moving some
of the megaliths or something.
OK, here's a place in China.
Gongxi, Hunan.
It's this village.
It's got all these
stone balls in it.
So this is-- where
stone balls appear,
they become like tourist sites.
But again, people just can't
explain what's going on.
Here's more of the
stone balls in Gongxi.
So I've been fascinated
by it, but I still
don't have a really good idea.
You know, one explanation
they said in Costa Rica
was that, well, they would use
these stone balls to create
giant star maps for navigators
and they would roll them around
like, well, you know,
this island's over here
and these stars, but again, that
doesn't really quite make sense.
These are stone balls at Malta.
Malta for a while were the
oldest ruins, they said.
There were found
stone balls there.
Gobekli Tepe is now, they
say is older than Malta.
This is a place in Sardinia.
It's like a ramped pyramid and
it's got a couple of stone balls
on it, which are featured.
And the Archeologists
always realize
that these stone
balls are important,
but they don't know how.
They don't know why.
There's even in the Isle of Man.
I was there with Hugh Newman
a couple of years ago,
and I found out that in this
harbor there on the Isle of Man,
you can only see it
at low tide, I guess,
is also a granite stone ball.
Here's a stone ball
in Easter Island.
So we'll go there.
This is a relatively--
kind of small one,
probably about the size of
a volleyball or something.
But they say on Easter Island
that the most important thing
on the island isn't the stone
statues or walls and stuff.
It's this ball right here.
It's the most important
thing on the whole island.
And they say that
this ball was used
to move the statues who
walked around the island.
And they put them around
the island, Easter Island
with eyes that
were facing inland.
So here's the quarry
on Easter Island.
And it's at Rano
Raraku, and it's
in the interior of the island.
It's a big extinct
volcano crater.
It's granite and
basalt, and that's
where you have a lot of
these statues are there.
Some of them are buried
deep into their chests.
The purpose of these
statues, though,
was to be moving them
around to the outer parts,
the coastal areas of the island,
and they would face inland.
This is what they say there.
So here's what it looks like.
This is like the slopes of
the volcano which is a quarry.
And then the statues are
kind of standing there.
Some of them are leaning
over and whatnot.
And this shows you here where
the Rano Raraku area is here.
But what you see
is that they put
the statues all
around the island,
and they're faced inland,
they had inlaid eyes.
According to the
Easter islanders,
a power came out of their eyes.
They call it "mana."
And that power kept
the island from sinking
because they were from
a lost land called
Hiva, which was gone.
And it was underwater now,
but Easter Island was left.
And so the statues,
they believed,
were keeping the island
from sinking this power.
And what they say
is that the statues
had to walk in a clockwise
fashion around the island.
And up here is a
volcano that has
a big, strong magnetic field.
And your compass
goes crazy there.
They mark it on maps.
Jacques Cousteau's
son, Philippe Cousteau,
flew over this area in an
ultralight back in the 1970s.
They told him to stay
away from that volcano
because his instruments
would go crazy.
But he did fly--
but he decided to
fly over it anyway.
And his instruments went
crazy and he crashed
and he was almost killed.
And they had to medevac
him to Santiago and Chile
to save his life.
So that's all--
it's all so weird
what's going on there
at Easter Island.
And the statues themselves are
often heavily buried under--
right up to the chest.
There is like 30 feet
of soil around them.
These are some of what
the statues look like.
They're standing up.
They had a top hat on them.
Some of them are
gigantically huge.
They do not have any feet.
They're holding their
hands down by their waist.
I've decided actually,
that these statues
are statues of Shiva.
That's what they are.
Here we see, here's
Thor Heyerdahl.
But this shows you how deeply
buried some of these statues
are.
I mean, that means that
they've been there a long time.
I mean, probably thousands
of years with that much soil
to accumulate around the
base of these statues.
I mean, this is
really something.
So here we are again, looking
at these giant Easter Island
statues and how huge they
are, how buried they are.
This one actually had
a ship carved onto it.
But this is all part of
the baffling kind of stuff
of these things being buried.
And as I was
saying, as I believe
they are statues of Shiva.
This is what they had when they
put these inlaid eyes in them.
They would have these
eyes and this energy
would come out of
the eyes that was
supposed to keep the island
from going down under.
This is in the museum there.
This is a female statue.
Quite a weird one, too.
This is a unique statue.
Totally strange.
Apparently elongated head,
the eyes looking kind of
like an extraterrestrial here.
Here's another statue, too,
that was found in 1960.
It looks like an
alien type head.
It's also now in
that museum as well.
Here it is right here.
Totally different from
the other statues there.
There's also a wall at
Easter Island called Vinapu,
and it's facing
to South America,
facing to Peru and Chile.
And it is, again, like
what you see in Peru
and in Bolivia, these perfectly
fitted walls were of granite,
they're cut, they're
fitted together perfectly.
You can't slip a razor blade or
$1 bill in between the blocks.
This is, again, the power
tools needed to do this.
You see the big
lichen patches there.
The way that they're
cutting it, they
put these little notch,
little stones in there.
Again, perfectly.
This is the exact
same kind of stonework
that you see in Peru, and in
other places around the world,
too.
So there is an unusual
statue at Easter Island
that's at the volcano.
Thor Heyerdahl also
discovered this one, too.
And this is a unique statue.
He's kneeling.
He's kneeling down.
And this is-- and he's got
his hands on his knees.
And this is what
they call Quizuo.
The Quizuo posture, that's
you're on your knees,
you've got your
hands on your knees,
and usually you're
putting your head forward.
So this one's from Shang,
China, the Quizuo position.
This is a very unusual
position, but we find it
all over the world.
Here's an Egyptian statue
with the Quizuo position.
It's thought to be a position
of supplication of like you're
in front of the king
or some super ruler
so you get down on your
knees, you put your hands
on your knees, and you
kind of put your head
forward a little bit.
So it's a special,
special way to sit.
And we find it around the world.
This is another
Shang Chinese one.
He's got a mohawk haircut.
We find the Quizuo
statues at Tiwanaku.
These statues were
from Tiwanaku.
Today, they're in
the museum in La Paz.
They're wearing turbans.
They have their hands.
They're on their knees.
They have their
hands on their knees.
So once again, the Quizuo
statue, like in Easter Island.
Here's a Quizuo statue
of an Olmec statue.
So this one's near
Veracruz and Jalapa
in the East Coast of Mexico.
He also is wearing like a turban
or he has a topknot on his head.
And that is what
Shiva looks like.
If you know the statues of
Shiva or depictions of Shiva,
Shiva has very long hair.
That's what called Shiva.
And they tie it in a bun
up on top of their head.
Shaivites, who are
worshipping Shiva.
Here's a Harappa statue
from ancient Harappa.
This is super ancient
India, Indus valley,
and in Pakistan and India.
He's in the Quizuo
position, too.
So what this does is it
connects all these civilizations
all over the world.
So here's Nan Madol.
This place is the 8th
wonder of the world.
It's on an island in Micronesia,
on an island called Pohnpei.
It's actually in the ocean.
It's built on a coral reef.
About half of the
city is underwater.
It has walls about 40 feet high.
The largest stones there
are said to be 80 tons.
Giorgio and I went there to do
an episode of "Ancient Aliens,"
and I'd been there
about five times or so.
You normally will
go there in a boat
and you go through
all these canals.
They stack these basalt crystals
in a Lincoln Log fashion
into walls 30, 40 feet high.
There's like 100
artificial islands here.
This is kind of
what it looks like.
These canals, these big walls.
Like I say, about half
of it's underwater.
You can't, they say--
get this.
They say there's at least
250 million tons of basalt
that are stacked up
and put into this site.
It's astonishing.
It's the 8th wonder
of the world.
And they, the
islanders, all tell you
that they flew these stones from
the other side of the island
and they levitate them and they
flew them across the island.
The Archeologists
don't believe that,
so they believe that somehow
they just put all these things,
80-ton blocks, onto a canoe,
little outrigger canoe
and paddled them
here and moved them.
I mean, you're standing
there, you're looking at it.
I mean-- and you believe
that they flew these rocks
through the air.
That's what they say.
Here's some of the
ones underwater.
Yeah, they're like, wow.
Yeah, you totally
believe it when
you're there because
you can't imagine
them doing it any other way.
I mean, this is such a
colossal building project
that it's just on a scope
that's just unimaginable.
And the population of the
island today is not very big.
Here's more underwater
stuff there.
Here we go.
I actually go scuba diving and
snorkeling all over the place.
The tide comes in.
Now, what the islanders
say is that the stones
came from this
basalt plug, which
is on the other
side of the island,
on the west side of the island.
And they call this
"chicken shit mountain."
And here's the thing.
There is so much basalt,
these basalt logs
and crystals at Nan Madol,
and entire mountains
would be dismantled to
get all that basalt.
250 million tons of it.
It's amazing.
[AUDIO LOGO]